Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, Ricard Lobs. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Doin Farmer. He is Director of
the Complexity Economics Program at the Institute for New
Economic Thinking at the Oxford Martin Martin School, Bailey
Gifford, professor in the Mathematical Institute at the University
of Oxford and an external professor at the Santa
Fe Institute. And today we're talking about his recent
book Making Sense of Chaos, a Better Economics For
a Better World. So, Doctor Farmer, welcome to the
show. It's an honor to everyone.
Thanks. It's an honor to be here.
So, I mean, uh I was going to ask
you about complexity science, but since I already have
a few interviews on the show where I addressed
that topic with people like Doctor Randall, Beer, Luis
Favela and others, I think that people can go
and watch those interviews to have a proper introduction
to the topic. So let me start right away
by asking you in what ways is economics or
the economy itself, a complex system.
Well, complex systems are systems with emergent properties where
the fundamental building blocks, whatever they are, the properties
of their properties are, or the properties of their,
that of what emerges from their interactions are fundamentally
different than the properties of the individual building blocks,
qualitatively different. And in the economy, we as people,
if you imagine you were Robinson Crusoe, you'd have
a certain set of things you could do. But
we as a society can do things that are
vastly beyond what we can do as individuals. And,
and, and that's the sense in which the economy
is an emergent phenomenon.
So tell us specifically about Ks theory, I know
that it is part of complexity theory, but tell
us a little bit about it. And then I
will ask you about the specific phenomenon in economics.
OK. Um Well, chaos is, is something that happens
in what are called dynamical systems. Like the ones
that come from physics, Newton's laws where um you
get two properties sensitive dependence on initial conditions and
what's called endogenous motion motion from within the system
itself. And so the first property just means that
you can have nearby initial conditions that lead to
very different final states because things on average separate
at an exponential rate. So you can have a,
a system where uh e even if it's deterministic,
meaning that if you know the state, you know
exactly where it's gonna go in the future. But,
but a tiny difference in that initial state can
cause it to go somewhere very different. So that's
underlies what we often call randomness. And, and it
can lead to unpredictability like in the weather where
the weather is fundamentally unpredictable, we just can't predict
it better than a certain amount. The endogenous motion
is means that if you think for example of
standing by a mountain stream, the stream beds fixed
the water coming down, the stream is coming down
at the same rate and yet the stream is
constantly moving. Uh That's because of the inherent chaotic
dynamics of the water in the stream that, that
generates that movement. So those two properties together are
what we call chaos in, in the technical sense.
So then this is something that you address in
the book. Can we apply chaos theory to understanding
business cycles, for example?
Well, I think we can, we can't prove that
yet. But um but the, the big question in
in about business cycles, which are, you know, variations
in the output of the economy, are they happening
from external causes? As they did say with COVID
that business cycle was very much caused by outside
effects. But in 2008, the 2008 financial crisis, it
came from within the economic system. And uh traditional
models in economics don't have the capacity to generate
endogenous motion that is motion from within the system.
Uh Whereas uh alternative models that I talk about
in the book that can show chaos do. And
so it's a way of at least conceptually thinking
about why we have business cycles that just happen
spontaneously
a and is the economy itself chaotic?
Well, I think it is, I, I mean, again,
we can't prove that yet. But um but the
economies, I think there are many examples where the
economy creates its own change and really chaos is
the only possible explanation for that.
Mhm. In the book, you also established at a
certain point, an analogy between the economy and organisms
in biology. Co could you explain that in what
ways can they be analogous?
Well, so sometimes it helps to think of these
analogies to understand why things do what they do.
And the economy, I argue in the book is
The Metabolism of Civilization. Now just to remind people
what a metabolism is, metabolism is a digestive system
uh that takes in um materials from the outside
world and converts them into materials that we need
either to main to generate energy, to repair ourselves
or to reproduce. And the economy similarly takes in
uh natural resources and combines them with human labor
and generates the goods and services that we people
need. So we're both a part of that process
like cells in the human body. But but but
the the economy is collectively our metabolism. And I
also make analogies in the book to between ecologies
and the economy. And I think both are true.
The an ecology, ecology. I argue if you think
if you step back and think about it more
generally is a study of the interactions of specialists
with each other in a holistic way. And why
do I say that? I mean, animal species are
specialists. Grass is a specialist at taking earth and
water and sun and converting it into grass. Zebras
are specialist at taking grass and converting it to
zebras. Lions are specialists at converting zebras into lions
and so uh and ecology and biology is in
the study of ecosystems of interacting specialists and it
teaches certain lessons like even though lions don't interact
directly with grass, other than maybe the roll around
in it once in a while. Uh CHANGING the
population of lions can have a dramatic effect on
the quantity of grass that we have. Because if
you get rid of the lions, the zebras may
become overpopulated and they'll eat the grass uh and
cause grass and which then cause erosion and has
all kinds of other side effects in uh in
ecosystems. Um Similarly, in the economy we all occupy,
we take specialized roles as individuals, we take specialized
roles as companies and, and the economy is really
the study of these e eco ecosystems of specialized
actors. And that's actually the key to why the
economy has emergent phenomena and could do things that
are far beyond what individuals can do. Because by
specializing, we really um by specializing and trading, we
can do things much more efficiently than we could
if we all performed all the functions we needed
to survive.
Mhm So in order to understand the economy and
also I think to try to predict certain economic
phenomena, it's important, it's important for us to have
simulations. But how do we set up a proper
simulation in economics?
Uh Well, it requires insight and thought and but
roughly speaking, uh we, we, we create a simulation
by first of all studying the economy asking who
are the essential actors, how do they interact with
each other? What are the institutions that are important
for these interactions like markets? Um And we create
a simulation where we put all these elements together
to try to mimic what the economy does. So
in a typical simulation, you have agents like households
and firms who um receive information about what's happening
in the economy who make decisions that we have
to program into computer code. Those decisions have economic
impact that generates new information as well as other
information may flow in from outside. And so the
actors make another set of decisions and we repeat
the cycle. So in an, in a an economic
simulation which we call agent based models, because the,
the, the key thing that makes it different from
the simulation of the physical system is that there
are agents who make decisions they have agency. And
so, so that's pretty much the prescription we would
follow in creating a simulation of an economic system
just to explore one particular example. Do you think
that the housing bubble crisis that we had back
in the two thousands could have been properly simulated
and predicted.
I think so. Um WE created a simulation of
the housing crisis. Now we did so after the
fact. But but in that simulation, uh we really
mimicked all the things that go on when people
participate in housing markets. So we we created a
simulation of housing markets. And in the simulation, we
mimicked everything that happens when people participate in housing
markets. So in the simulation, we had households who
could do choose to rent or buy a house,
they could, they had to decide what kind of
house they would buy if they wanted to buy
a house. And in doing that, they would get
together with a real estate agent who would help
them find a house of comparable the right quality
of the house they wanted to buy. Uh They
typically then needed to take out a loan. So
they would go to a bank who would decide
whether or not it would approve the loan. And
then um and then they would search for a
house to buy or if they were a seller,
the real estate agent would find a comparable house
to theirs. Look at what price that house sold
for. And then they would mark their, their first
offer up from that and try and sell their
house. If that didn't work, they would mark it
down and they would do that every month until
either the house sold or they decided they didn't
want to sell it anymore. So we really mimic
what happens in a real housing market. And we
could do that with I, in that case, tens
or hundreds of thousands of different agents, all of
whom were participating in the housing market. Uh And
we saw behavior that closely resemble the behavior we
saw in the housing bubble. We since uh used
a version of that model in interactions with the
bank of England to help them set housing policy.
And, and we were able to mimic the, the
the bubble that at the time that we weren't
supposed to use that word when interacting with the
Bank of England. But the bubble that the um
housing market and the United Kingdom was in and
we simulated the policy. We, we, we, our, our
housing simulation actually spontaneously generated bubbles endogenously from within
the system. We would let it go up to
the top of the bubble and then we would
impose the policy they wanted. And we were seeking
a policy that that wouldn't, would stop the bubble.
But, but at the same time, wouldn't make the
housing market crash in a destructive way. And so
we tested the policy, it did produce roughly the
behavior that was wanted, meaning it flattened the bubble
out and that was the policy that they implemented.
Now, I can't claim that we were um we
certainly weren't the only influence in their decision making.
But um things did work out roughly as we
suggested, they enacted the policy, housing market flattened out.
OK. So before we get into other phenomena or
explore other phenomena and examples of them that we
can tackle through a complexity, a complexity systems approach
to economics. Let me just ask you, what do
you think are perhaps the main differences between standard
economic theory and complexity in economics, particularly in the
ways it models our agents reason and make decisions.
Well, they're completely different. Um In the standard economic
model, you start by, OK, you identify the agents
but then you assign them utility functions. So essentially
a scorecard of their preferences. What do they like?
What don't they like? And it gives a ranking
so that uh you then make the assumption that
all the agents want to maximize their utility. And
then you, you calculate the decisions those agents should
all make to maximize their utility typically taking into
account what all the other agents in the system
are doing. So each agent looks at the other
agents thinks about what they're doing and then makes
the decision that given that the other agents are
all maximizing their utility will maximize their own agents
utility. And you then, so you calculate that decision,
all those decisions, you then look at their economic
consequences and that's the model. And you do this
by solving equations um in an agent based model
in contrast, we ask, what are the decisions the
agents typically make? So if say that agent is
a financial investor, we know they want to buy
undervalued assets if the agent is a household. Well,
we look at the behavioral data about what uh
what are the patterns of consumption for households in
different categories? Poor households behave very differently than wealthy
households. So we just look to see behaviorally what
do they do. So we program those decisions into
computer code and then we run a model which
say to follow on in the example, the wealthy
household will make one kind of decision, the poor
household will make a different kind of decision. And
um and then we simulate as I described before
this process in a dynamic way where at every
time step, the agents all make their decisions using
the algorithms we've given them. And we just let
that run to see what happens. So we might
have an emergent phenomenon like an equilibrium where everything
goes into a uh uh uh uh well to
an economist, something like the optimal decision that they
would have made or it may not in the
case of housing markets, for example, is very important
that housing markets actually don't clear meaning in housing
markets typically supply and demand don't match very well
at all. Whereas in a standard model, they, they
assume that supply and demand match condition called equilibrium.
And so um we don't have to make those
kind of assumptions. Mhm.
And is it possible or if it's not possible
yet? Do you think it would be possible to
model the entire economy through complexity theory?
Yes. Uh, WE'RE, uh, getting closer and closer to
being able to do that. We've built a macro
micro macro model of the economy where we simulate
individuals who are organized in the household and who,
uh, you know, act both as consumers and as
laborers. They work for specific firms, uh who employ
uh individuals to act as labor, but who buy
goods and services from other companies and then produce
a good or a service and, and they do
that in an ongoing way. And so we can
do that now for using millions of households and
um, and hundreds of thousands of firms and we're
in the process of scaling that up at the
moment, we're still simulating typically one country or a
few countries at a time together with the rest
of the world. Um We close the economy and
these kind of models meaning nothing is flowing in
or out of the economy. It's a closed system
and we're working our way towards being able to
do that for the whole global economy.
Mhm. And what do we know specifically about inequality?
How does it emerge?
Well, one of the things you see in these
models is inequality can emerge spontaneously uh even in
very simple models, um just luck can lead one
person to become wealthy and another person to become
poor. Um When you add that in to things
like differences in education, that becomes an even bigger
effect. And so in the kind of models we
have, we can we, we actually start by taking
the individuals and demographically matching them to real populations.
So we match things in terms of age education,
gender, race. And um and then we simulate the
economy forward, we can explore what kind of policies
lead to, to less inequality in the economy and
how do production in the, in the economy and
inequality interact. Um You know, conventional wisdom is that
you mm more inequality is associated with higher GDP.
Uh That's not necessarily the case. In fact, you
may have the opposite because economies, economic production can
be limited by investment or it can be limited
by demand. If you don't have people to sell
goods, to who have money to buy those goods,
then that's bad for output. So in our models,
we're seeking to find the right trade off between
the two so that we at least understand what
that interaction is uh without prejudging uh what's good
or bad. We at least want to understand the
cause and effect of inequality and economic uh production
and that's research in progress right now. I I
can't tell you the answer, but my hypothesis is
that over the last 20 years, the economy has
really been demand limited and GDP would have gone
up if we had less inequality.
Mhm. So, uh now I would like to ask
you a little bit about markets. So what are
some of the main claims made in standard economics
about free markets? And in what ways can markets
be inefficient?
Well, um you know, the standard claim and OK,
this, here we have to be a little bit
subtle because there, there's a lot of different views
among mainstream economists about this as well. And I
think uh many of them would agree with what
I'm about to say, which is that, um though
some wouldn't, um uh you know, there's many different
flavors of capitalism. Swedish capitalism is very different than
American capitalism. And, and there's a question about how
much regulation does capitalism take at some, at one
extreme? You have libertarians who say, oh, well, we
should just get rid of all the regulations, then
capitalism will do its job and everything will be
great. Uh Others who would say, well, no, we
need to, we need to control capitalism. Um We
need to make regulations to deal with externalities like
pollution. We need to um to do things to
keep inequality from just running away and becoming extreme.
Uh And uh and so we really have to
manage capitalism in order to have capitalism do what
it, the good things that it can do for
us. And so we're exploring those tradeoffs again. My
conjecture is that regulating capitalism in the right, kinds
of ways is actually good for capitalism and that
it leads to more output, uh, leads to better
outcomes for people and it's even good for rich
people. So, uh, but, you know, again, that's work
in progress,
right? Uh, BUT I, I mean, can we, how
can we make sense of, for example, market crashes?
Well, we've got to ask why the market crashes
occur. And so now we're slipping over into what
the financial system does because market crashes are part
of the financial system. And in the book, I
make the analogy between financial markets and the enteric
nervous system also called the gut nervous system, which
many people like I wasn't aware of it until
I started studying this more carefully. But, you know,
in a human being, you have the, the enteric
nervous system, your gut nervous system, you have as
many neurons as a cat does in the cat
brain. And if that, if that gut nervous system
stops functioning, you'll die unless you're fed intravenously because
you can't digest food without it. We tend to
think, oh, you know, you eat the food, it
goes down your esophagus and lands in your stomach
and then it's just like a container with some
chemicals in it and that's it. But actually your
enteric nervous system is doing all kinds of things
to help you digest that food. And if you,
it doesn't do those things, you die. Um, THE
financial systems at least it should be like that
and that the financial system is telling us about
things like setting prices properly so that the incentives
are set the right way so that people do
the right things to make us all better off.
Uh I worry to be honest that it, it's
often wildly off the mark in the modern financial
system. A lot of the modern financial system is
really like a casino for speculators that has instabilities
that can do quite the opposite. And I think
that's what market crashes are often about. Um uh
FINANCIAL speculation leads to overshoots and undershoots that cause
the financial system to do dysfunctional things. And the
2008 crisis was a very good example of that.
We had uh new financial instruments that people didn't
understand very well, mortgage backed securities, uh had side
effects that people hadn't thought through. So that when
the housing market uh dropped uh mortgage backed securities
which were hugely invested in by financial institutions all
over the world became almost worthless. And that caused
the whole credit system globally to cut back, which
then caused things in the real economy to stop
working because businesses do need money to, they need
credit to go about what they're doing. So when
the supply of credit got shut off, the economy
suffered. So, but to even think about things that
way, you have to have a way of looking
at the financial system that admits that it's not
perfect. Whereas the standard efficient market hypothesis that most
financial theory is based on doesn't even allow that
possibility. By definition, the financial system is working perfectly.
In contrast, I have um uh a theory of
market ecology that views the economy as an ecosystem
of specialized traders in which things can go wrong.
And where I think, I argue that we have
to actually understand that egos ecosystem to, to understand
why the financial system is working as it is
and why it malfunctions.
Mhm So since you mentioned the 2008 financial crisis,
I have this question saved for later for the
end of the interview. But let me ask you,
let me ask you now. Uh So even if
we are able to predict any financial crisis, do
you think that we can avoid it or prevent
it in any way?
I think so. But you know, uh the proof
is in the pudding, we haven't done it yet.
Uh Of course, it's always tricky if I predict
there's gonna be a financial crisis and then we
take some actions and we don't have a financial
crisis. Well, was my prediction, right? Uh It's a
deep, deep question. I think we often make predictions
precisely. So those predictions don't come true because we're
making conditional predictions. If we continue acting as we
are now something bad will happen, so we change
our actions so that bad thing won't happen. And
to really understand whether those kind of predictions are
working, you need to make lots of them and
gain experience and, and you need to make clear
how each prediction depends on the conditions underlying the
prediction. But, but I very much believe that that's
true. I think, you know, we we in the
housing market that I mentioned the housing market agent
based model, we showed how um how uh that
we could predict the housing crisis. And we showed
that um lending policy was the primary cause of
the hou housing crisis. And that if we changed
lending policy in a counterfactual, then we had a
much less severe housing bubble, it didn't go up
and it didn't go down, it had much steadier
path. And, and we got that behavior by sticking
to the previous lending policies of, you know, tighter
credit and 30 year fixed term loans and rather
than the crazy kinds of loans that were being
given out during the housing bubble and, and lending
to people who really didn't have the capacity to
make the payments on their house in, in our
alternative that didn't happen. And we had a much
smoother path. So it's at least a proof of
principle. But until we do it in real life,
we won't know. And as I said, even then
it's gonna take some experience uh because you don't
know that you, when you avoid a bad thing
by making a prediction, uh it takes some experience
like if you can show you avoid these bad
things for many years in a row then, then
you go. Oh, ok. Maybe it's working.
Mhm. So, let me ask you now, changing topics
a little bit. What is it that in your
book you call Climate Economics?
Well, you know, we are in the midst of
a major economic transition uh targeted at uh stopping
the emission of greenhouse gasses. We need to get
to net zero quickly. And so there's a lot
of debate about how we should do that, how
much it's gonna cost us? What is the right
path, how should we invest in order to get
there? And um so I've been studying that in
two ways. One is by collecting data on past
transitions, past technology transitions to uh see how they
work, what, what are the patterns that are consistent
in those transitions? And, and, and then also by
creating simulations of the transition to understand what uh
how it's likely to happen and, and to give
us insight about how to make it happen faster
and better, smoother and so forth. And so we've
learned several different lessons from these studies. One is
that technologies behave very differently on one hand, um
uh you know, we have some technologies like fossil
fuels that cost about the same once you adjust
for inflation as they did 100 and 40 years
ago. And other technologies like solar energy that's 10,000
times cheaper than it was when it was first
commercially deployed in a vanguard satellite in 1958. So
these technologies are behaving very differently. And we're incredibly
lucky that just when we really need low carbon
or zero carbon technologies, uh renewable technologies like solar
energy, wind lithium ion batteries, um green hydrogen are
all entering the stage, are all dropping in price
quite quickly so that solar and wind are already
competitive with fossil fuels and we predict will become
significantly cheaper through time. So that in fact, due
to the presence of renewables, energy will become cheaper
than it's ever been. And uh and also help
us deal with climate change. Uh In fact, we
argue in one of our papers that a rapid
transition will save us collectively, the order of $12
trillion or very likely save us that we make
probabilistic predictions about that. So in other words, we
should pursue that even if we didn't have uh
climate change to worry about it also, by the
way, has other nice side effects, like less pollution,
more stable energy prices, uh uh energy security, less
uh less other polluting effects. Um So, so there
are many other reasons why we should actually pursue
the green energy transition and make it happen as
fast as we can.
Mhm Since we're talking about the climate here, how
do we predict climate and the weather? And are
there similarities between how we go about doing that?
And uh complexity theory? Applied to economics.
Yeah. So the way we predict the weather is
very different than the way we predict. At least
the way mainstream economics predicts the economy. You know,
in the weather, we now do um in numerical
weather prediction, we have a model, a physical model
of the weather. And we make measurements throughout the
globe all the time. Through combination of satellites and
weather stations. We put those measurements into a simulation
of the weather that we use supercomputers to make
predictions about what the weather is going to be
tomorrow. And up to roughly next week beyond that,
we can't really do anything very useful. Um And,
and that's something we've invested, you know, hundreds of
billions of dollars into doing that has many economic
benefits. And that involved a sustained effort by uh
physical scientists that began in 1950 has been going
ever since and getting bigger and bigger and more
and more important ever since it took them 30
years to break, even with subjective weather forecasters who
would predict the weather, you know, by just looking
at weather maps and past experience and using rules
of thumb. Um BUT it became better in roughly
1980. And since then, we've had, it's continued to
get better and better. In contrast, when we predict
the economy, we have relatively small models that don't
use any much fine grained information about the economy
uh that try and predict, make economic predictions in
aggregate form these predictions are based on ideas from
uh that I described before and the way the
models are built. And um uh and they don't
use big data, they don't use serious computing power.
In contrast, in our complexity economics models, like the
macro model I mentioned, we simulate the behavior of
millions or tens of millions of households and hundreds
of thousands or more firms. And we simulate that
interaction in some detail, we crave information on the
finest grain possible because that's the scale at which
the model is built. And so we're really mimicking
the same style of prediction that's used in weather
forecasting. And we think that if if we get
the resources to bring this to completion, we could
have a dramatic improvement in economic forecasting along the
lines of the one that happened with weather.
So when talking about potential solutions for climate change
earlier, you mentioned renewable energy. Are there any other
solutions that particularly from an economic standpoint? You, you
you would suggest,
well, I think actually for the, for the energy
part of the economy, which is, you know, it's
only three or 4% of GDP to produce energy.
But without energy, the whole economy grinds to a
halt. So tourism is a comparable part of GDP.
As we saw with COVID, we can live without
tourism for a year or two if we have
to. It's not fun, but we could do it
without energy, we would die So, so energy is
really, really important and it makes 75% of the
emissions that that of greenhouse gas emissions. So I
think renewable energy and and appropriate storage can really
solve the the energy part of emissions. So we
get rid of 75% that way. And I think
we're on track to do that in about 20
years. Um In contrast, land use and farming, uh
those are harder problems and we aren't making the
same kind of rapid progress there. So, so we
need to focus more attention on that. There are
a few other things like cement, cement makes a
lot of greenhouse gas emissions. I think that's also
solvable, but land use is the hard one that
um uh remains to be done. I think there
are solutions but we need to be making that
change faster than we are now.
Um And what about one solution that some people
talk about nuclear energy? What do you think about
it?
Well, you know, I'm I believe we should take
the cheapest and quickest way to make these changes
and nuclear energy is neither cheap nor quick. It
um nuclear energy now nuclear energy came into being
as a commercial way to make energy at roughly
the same time as solar photovoltaics. Um WHEREAS solar
photo tanks have dropped in cost by a factor
of 10,000 nuclear energy if is if anything more
expensive now. Um And so there's no trend towards
becoming cheaper. People are talking about small modular reactors
as a way to change that and it might
work to make it cheaper but small modular reactors.
First of all, nuclear power, inherently, the reason they
built nuclear power plants so big is because of
economies of scale. Uh YOU know things like the
ratio of the the cost of the material has
to do with the surface of the vessels, the
then the surface to volume ratio gets bigger as
you build the plant bigger and bigger. And so
there are various reasons why they make nuclear plants
big. So small modular reactors start out with a
handicap. They're gonna be more expensive to start with
than traditional nuclear power, which is already more expensive
than the alternatives and shows no pattern of getting
better, small modular reactors will very likely drop in
costs through time because of mass production, but it's
not mass production on the same scale as solar
panels. You know, a solar panel is a pretty
cheap thing that you can really mass produce dramatically.
Small modular reactor is not going to be on
the same scale. I don't think the rates at
which the cost will drop will be as dramatic
as they are for solar energy. And I don't
think it's ever gonna catch up with solar energy
plus storage, but we'll see. Uh I just think
it's, it's not an investment that I would bet
on.
OK. So I have one final topic I would
like to explore wi with you today. We've already
talked a little bit about inequality before. So, uh
it's also one of the big issues we have
to tackle nowadays. So how can we tackle it
through the kind of framework that you present in
your book?
Well, I really think we can understand uh you
know, whatever we think of a new policy. The
first question, one of the questions we should ask
right away is what does it do to inequality?
Government agencies that evaluate policies already look at questions
like what does it do to GDP maybe what
does it do to aggregate unemployment? But they don't,
they aren't capable of looking at inequality because the
models can't handle that because traditional mainstream models though
there is a whole branch trying to make uh
what are called heterogeneous agent models. Uh That, that
in principle can look at inequality, but they have
to because these models are so hard to solve,
they have to put it in, in a very
stylized, not fully realistic way. And so at the
end of the day, the answers are not very
reliable. Um In contrast, we have it automatically in
our models and, and so any policy that we
want to look at, we can ask, we can
answer the question, what will it do to inequality?
And I think that needs to be a routine
part of our evaluation because you know what I
hope we can do with complexity economics is enter
into a new phase where economic models genuinely provide
useful guidance that is we can answer cause effect
questions. If we implement this policy, what will happen
if we implement this other policy? What will happen?
Inequality needs to be part of the, what will
happen and we need to get answers that we
can trust traditional economic models. Don't have a very
good track record for predicting the effects of policies.
Great. So the book is again Making Sense of
Chaos, a better economics for a better world. I'm
leaving a link to it in the description of
the interview and doctor Farmer. Just before we go,
would you like to mention any places on the
internet where people can find you and your work?
Well, I have a website Joan farmer.com. Uh THE
Institute for New Economic Thinking has a website with
our work. Um You know, I've also started a
company called Macrocosm whose goal is to scale up
these ideas and reduce them to practice and provide
commercial solutions. So this isn't just an academic exercise.
And um so we also have a website and
for anybody who's interested in economic advice, uh we,
we can do it and you know, we're particularly
for non commercial. Uh WE try to make our,
our research as open as possible for non-commercial use
because we really want to see things change. Uh
OK, we're trying to make a little money but
we really wanna change and, and provide the world
with better economic advice. So all of those sources
um could be useful.
Great. Thank you. So, thank you so much for
coming on the show. It's been a great pleasure
to talk with you.
It's a great pleasure. It's been a great interview.
Thank you very much.
Hi, guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perego Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam, Castle Matthew Whitting
B no wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Conners, Philip
Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert Wine in nai
Z Mar Nevs calling in Hobel Governor Mikel Stormer
Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferger Ken Hall, her
Ma J and Lain Jung Y and the Samuel
K Hes Mark Smith J. Tom Hummel s friends,
David Sloan Wilson, the Yasa dear, Roman Roach Diego
and Jan Punter, Romani Charlotte Bli Nicole Barba, Adam
Hunt, Pavlo Stassi na me, Gary G Alman, Sam
of Zal Ari and Ypj Barboza Julian Price Edward
Hall, Eden, Broder Douglas Fry, Franca Gil Cortez or
Scott Zachary ftdw Daniel. Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Giorgio,
Luke Loki, Georgio Theophano Chris Williams and Peter Wo
David Williams, the Ausa Anton Erickson Charles Murray, Alex
Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore Fists, Larry Dey
Junior, Old Ebon Starry Michael Bailey. Then spur by
Robert Grassy Zorn, Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radick
Mark Temple, Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris Tory Kimberley
Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica. No week in the B
brand Nicholas Carlson Ismael Bensley Man George Katis, Valentine
Steinman, Perros, Kate Van Goler, Alexander Abert Liam Dan
Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular J Ner Urla. Good
enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of Shan Nelson, Mike
Levin and Jos Net. A special thanks to my
producers, these our web, Jim Frank Luca Stina, Tom
Vig and Bernard N Cortes Dixon, Benedikt Muller Thomas
Trumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin John Carlman, Negro, Nick
Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to my executive producers,
Matthew lavender, Sergi Adrian Bogdan Knit and Rosie. Thank
you for all